---
layout: post
title: I don't know
---

Being Lebanese and living in the US made this summer especially eventful. June started with the George Floyd shooting, July started with Lebanon’s complete economic collapse, and August started with one of the largest non-nuclear explosions in recorded history.  

Throughout 2020, I was a sea and an ocean away from Lebanon; that distance brought me security, but also months alone in a room with your thoughts. Since the pandemic started, I managed to develop an inner life. I honed mechanisms for coping and grief, texted and called my family and friends, joined online lectures, kept a journal, and fiddled with my circuit board. This wasn’t a lifestyle I asked for, but I was equipped to handle and accept it.  

Becoming better at reflection resulted in asking myself more questions, despite vanishingly small chances of getting answers. I had the vast steppes of the internet to wander on, but the only thing I wanted was a set of eyes looking into mine; a request too onerous for the powers that be to grant. So here I was, too stubborn to look beyond my own mind for answers, standing on my reliable but still flawed reason. So far, I had been served well by my senses, why should this pandemic change that? What I didn’t expect was successive earthquakes no foundation was built to face. 

When I started asking some questions, all my answers were “I don’t know” - even after weeks of mulling. Before 2020, the questions were “why did this happen?” and “what can I do about it?”, but now they also include “how was this even made possible?”, “where to even start?”, and “how bad is it?”. I don’t know.  

“I don’t know” was already the answer to many of my questions during the spring semester. While I had the privilege of being shielded from the instability many others suffered, I was still going through a season of questions. “How can I handle my graduation, spring tour and parents visiting all being canceled?”, “why am I stuck here while everyone else is with their parents?”, and “how could I let myself spend a whole day playing Civilization V and having not thought of the Lord?”. At that point, I ran out of self-pity and decided to seek some answers, which was my pre-pandemic protocol. 

Unfortunately, the more I think of the events that transpired, the less capable I am to comprehend them. I wandered through a quicksand, and as I sink deeper and deeper, a cruel and laughing creature is shoveling dirt at my face. Any clarity is only illusory, and merely a step towards another puddle. I was already struggling with navigating the pandemic, but the ice I’ve been gliding on is getting thinner. 

This reflection provided my absolutely no answer, and I also suspect it provided you with none. At this point. I’m thinking that the way out is to stop sitting on these questions, get up and move on. My circumstances will always tie me to my questions, but right now, I owe myself serenity. But is an unexamined life worth living? I don’t know, man. 